Would you like to assist with a Theocratic building project?
You may see reports regarding branch construction and renovation or the need for new kingdom halls
and remote translation offices.
And this may cause you to wonder if you could have a share.
Well, that is a wonderful goal.
Now as we've considered in this symposium, it takes faith to do more for Jehovah.
Well, likewise, faith is required to share in a Theocratic building project.
Now, why is that?
Well, generally, there are two concerns.
One, we may lack experience.
We may feel that we do not have construction, design, engineering,
or real estate experience.
And thus, we may feel inadequate to assist with a local design construction or other project.
Or two, we may also realize that to begin assisting,
generally, we do so on a temporary basis.
Therefore, we may have concerns about leaving our job or our family for a period of time to assist.
Well, if you can relate to those concerns and note out the example of Nehemiah,
we'll build your faith.
Turn please to Nehemiah chapter one, verse two and three.
Nehemiah one, two and three.
At that time, Haneinah, one of my brothers, arrived with other men from Judah.
And I asked him about the remaining Jews who had escaped the captivity and also about Jerusalem.
They replied, those remaining there in the province who have survived the captivity
are in a terrible situation and in disgrace.
The walls of Jerusalem are broken down and his gates have been burned with fire.
But Nehemiah here is presented with the knee.
What would he do?
What do you say?
Oh, I hope those skilled brothers help that situation one day.
Look at chapter two and verse five.
I then said to the king, if it pleases the king and if your servant has found favor with
you, send me to Judah, to the city where my forefathers are buried, so that I may rebuild
it.
Yes, Nehemiah was moved.
He wanted to help.
He saw an opportunity and demonstrated his faith.
He took the initiative.
Now did it take faith for Nehemiah to take this step?
Well, no doubt it did.
Why do we say that?
Well, first off, what was Nehemiah's work assignment?
Was he the head of the King's construction project?
Was he the leading architect or engineer or city planner?
No.
No, rather, he was the cup bearer to the king.
You can pitch your hymns saying, well, I don't have the experience to rebuild the walls
of Jerusalem.
I wouldn't even know where to start.
Maybe I best leave that to somebody else.
No, rather, he saw the need.
He had the circumstances to help and he acted on that knee.
At Nehemiah did not let his possible lack of experience hold him back.
That took faith.
Now what about the fact that this was only a temporary assignment?
Well, Nehemiah again was willing to leave his prestigious position as the cup bearer
to the king.
You think about it?
He could have wondered whether his replacement would take over his position permanently.
Would his nice job be there when he returned from Jerusalem?
Well Nehemiah showed faith that Jehovah had loyal love and would remember him.
Notice his words in Nehemiah chapter 1 and verse 5.
I said, Oh Jehovah, the God of the heavens, the great and awe-inspiring God who keeps
his covenant and shows loyal love to those who love him and keep his commandments.
As Nehemiah was confident, Jehovah would show loyal love.
Jehovah would work things out.
And what was the result of Nehemiah's faith?
Well, although at first Nehemiah was not known as a builder, Jehovah used him in a mighty
way to accomplish, as well.
And Nehemiah contributed to the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem in significant ways.
What's the lesson?
Well, the lesson is we need faith if we are going to assist with a theocratic building
project.
Now primarily, we need brothers and sisters who have a strong relationship with Jehovah
and a willing spirit.
Those are the qualities we need.
A construction or technical skills can be learned.
And strong faith will give us the confidence that if we are invited, Jehovah will make
us equal to the task and help us to develop the skills that are needed.
And faith will also help us to trust that Jehovah will care for us when our assignment
is over.
In the following video, note how Sarah found the courage to assist in a theocratic
building project.
When I learned I was invited to work for a few weeks on the upcoming construction projects,
I was thrilled.
But her excitement quickly turned into anxiety because of what I had to do.
I pray to Jehovah for weeks to give me the strength to have the conversation with my
employer.
All right.
So?
I wanted to first of all say thank you for taking it.
I began to explain about the construction project and how it had been invited to volunteer
the time.
So you want time off during the busiest time of our year?
Well, yes.
It's your choice, but under no circumstances will uphold your position.
Suddenly, this beautiful privilege felt like a huge risk.
Was I making my life more complicated by doing this?
I read the account about the people in Nehemiah's day, their will in spirit demonstrated faith
and Jerusalem's walls were built by people who put their heart into the work.
I didn't want to miss out on the opportunity to save Jehovah in that way.
This is my resignation letter.
I had to have faith that Jehovah will bless my decision.
I'm not sure what the future holds when I get back, but I know Jehovah will take care
of me.
For now, I'm going to focus on putting my heart into the work.
Can you relate to when Sarah went to meet her employer or how she struggled with the decision
of what to do?
Well, how did Sarah resolve her concerns?
I remember she examined the example of Nehemiah and others and this gave her courage to act.
And as a result, she enjoyed many blessings.
Well many of our brothers and sisters have made the same choice.
For example, one couple had to give up their apartment and resign from their secular
employment to help with the project.
Now they said they did feel some anxiety as the end of their six-month assignment near,
but they trusted that Jehovah would help them and help he did.
When they returned, they called their former employer, and Nully did he offer them their
job back, but it was at better terms.
And they said that within one week of returning back, they had found a new apartment.
In another example, the local design construction department invited a brother to work for a few
months on a project.
Now at the time, he was working full-time with a major company.
He had good benefits, a good salary, a company car, housing.
He requested a leave of absence.
They denied his request.
Our brother decided to take the LDC assignment anyway.
He was fired from his job.
So what would he do after he completed his assignment?
Well, he actually was able to find a part-time job that has allowed him to stay in full-time
service.
And now he is a pioneer, he and his wife are pioneers, and he's serving as a remote
volunteer for a branch construction project.
And similar stories are repeated over and over.
Jehovah foretold that during these last days, a great crowd would worship him acceptably.
And the fulfillment of that prophecy has created an urgent need for more kingdom halls, assembly
halls, branch facilities, remote translation offices.
Now we understand that the pandemic has limited theocratic building projects to some extent
at this time.
However, there is still much work to do now and on into the future.
So if your health and circumstances permit, make yourself available.
You can do so by filling out the A19 and DC50 applications.
Your elders can help you to access these on JW.org.
So if assisting with a theocratic building project is your goal, you can be confident
that you too will become powerful by faith.
Take that leap.
You will enjoy Jehovah's support and many, many blessings.
Now brother Gaius Glocken team, a helper to the publishing committee will consider the
final talk of this symposium, enter the door to activity and faith, set something aside
for Jehovah's work.